NLR Calibration Description

Introduction

The Near Laser Rangefinder (NLR) is the first laser altimeter to
employ continuous, in-flight calibration using a fiber-optic delay
assembly (FODA), which is a spooled 109.5 m fused silica fiber-optic
cable. Part of each optical pulse formed within the laser resonator is
injected into the FODA, which injects a delayed optical signal
directly into the receiver. This allows end-to-end calibration for
each emitted pulse even when no target surface is available.

Data Format

The NLR Experiment Data Records (EDR) take the form of Flexible Image
Transport Standard (FITS) files, in which each packet makes up one
record. The NLR FITS files are organized such that all the normal
format packets from any Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) day are
compiled into one file, while all the high rate packets from the same
day are compiled into another file. The FITS file naming convention is
as follows: for the normal format FITS file, LyydddNT.FIT is used
where L=laser, and yyddd represents digits giving date of observation
in two-digit-year and day-of-year format; correspondingly, for the
high rate format FITS file LyydddHT.FIT is used. An example is
L96116HT.FIT for data obtained at 2 Hz on April 25, 1996.

The orbital mission phase employed only normal format packets. In these
packets, the spacecraft mission elapsed time (MET) is recorded at the time
of the first major frame in the packet. A normal rate packet contains up to
56 observations, so that the last observation may occur up to 55 seconds
after the nominal packet time in the case of 1 Hz data.

While the NLR packets contain basic information on the instrument
status, additional information on the state of the instrument is
returned in the spacecraft housekeeping packets. The SDC merges this
additional information with that from the NLR packets to produce the
NLR FITS files. A full listing of the data values in the NLR FITS
files with complete definitions is given in Cheng, et al. (2000).

Laboratory Calibration of Range Measurement

The absolute calibration of NLR range measurements, or the relation
between measured TOF and range, was established in laboratory tests
prior to launch (Cole, et al. 1997). Two separate measurements were
obtained: first, a determination of the total system delay in
commanded threshold TH = 2, and second, a determination of how this
delay varies with TH (threshold-based range walk). The total system
delay is the time between the arrival of a laser pulse and the
electronic registration of counts, and it was determined by comparing
the time delay of an optical pulse through the FODA in two cases:
1) FODA separate from the NLR (529.2 ns delay); and 2) FODA integrated
with the NLR receiver at commanded threshold TH = 2 (558.33 ns delay).
The total system delay Tsd was measured as the increase in the time
delay when connected to NLR, or 29.13 ns.

This measurement was confirmed, and the threshold-based range walk was
measured, during the absolute calibration tests performed on August
8-9, 1995 ("hall shot test", Zuber, et al. 1997).  We conclude that the
total system delay is 29 ns, with a (conservative) uncertainty
corresponding to half a count, which is 1 ns or 15.6 cm in range. 

In-flight Calibration Results 

The measurements of total system delay and threshold-based range walk
yield the conversion from range counts to range R in meters measured
by NLR 

        R = 0.3122838 * counts - corr ( TH ) - 4.37         (1)

where the last term accounts for the total system delay of 29 ns, and
where the correction is listed in Table 1 below and accounts for the
threshold-based range walk.

The threshold-based range walk corrections in Table 1 were obtained
from in-flight calibration tests. The calibration counts for all shots
with a given TH are averaged from a given test, omitting shots without
valid calibrations (e.g., FAILSAFE data, also data with range gate
values that suppress the calibration pulse). Each entry in Table 1 is
the average of  >1000 valid calibrations. The difference in average
calibration counts between the given threshold and TH = 2 yields the
range correction in Table 1, using the conversion 0.3122838 m per
count. The TH = 2 correction is zero by definition. No calibration
pulses are detected for TH = 7 so no range correction is shown, and
none is shown for TH = 0 which is at the noise level and which was
not used for mapping.

Since TH=7 was used for very low altitude flybys, a nominal 4.0
meters was assigned to corr(TH=7) in calibrating the resulting science
data.

The second column of Table 1 shows the threshold-based range walk
corrections from the combined data sets obtained in the flight tests
performed 4/19/99 and 8/13/99. The values in the second column will be
adopted for initial analyses. The third column shows, for comparison,
the corrections obtained from the combined data sets obtained in all
flight tests from launch through 1998. The changes in these
corrections over the > 3 yr time span are regarded as a conservative
estimate of the uncertainties in the corrections. The uncertainty in
range walk correction corresponds to less than 11 cm in range.

Table 1
Range corrections in meters vs. TH:

TH       corr (TH)              corr (TH)
        4/99 & 8/99          previous tests
1           -0.37               -0.36
2            0                   0
3            0.40                0. 51
4            0.84                0.92
5            1.38                1.38
6            2.17                2.15
7            4.0 (nominal)

Calibrated Level 2 products

The level 2 data products comprise the along-track time series of the
NLR instrument's science data in physical units, produced using
precision orbits, ancillary timing and attitude information supplied
by the NEAR SDC and instrument data derived from in-flight analysis.
Each level 2 data product is a text format table corresponding to a
daily level 1 EDR file and is described by a detached label. The file
naming convention is LyydddNv.TAB, where L=laser, and yyddd contains
the two-digit year and the three-digit Julian day of observation. The
letter v stands for processing version. 

Each Level 2 product begins with 2 header lines or records, followed by
data. The first record lists the name of the source FITS file
and the SPICE kernels used to compile the information included in the
table. The SPICE files de403s.bsp, naif0007.tls, and pck0006.tpc used are
constants in the analysis and are not listed in the header.
The files listed in the first line of the header are, in order:
     aggregated NLR telemetry filename;
     SPICE Orientation file for NEAR;
     SPICE spacecraft position for NEAR;
     Additional SPICE position file for NEAR;
     SPICE on-board time (SCLK) to ET mapping;
     SPICE file for 433 Eros ephemeris;
     SPICE Orientation file for 433 Eros;
     SPICE Instrument kernel file for NLR.
The second line/record of the header lists brief table headings. These
are for convenience only and should not be construed as object names.

Precision orbit data for the NEAR-Shoemaker spacecraft is provided by
the NASA-GSFC analysis team and is archived in the form of SPICE-format
spacecraft ephemeris (SPK) files. The MET time associated with
each shot, with minor frame given in decimal seconds, is converted to
Ephemeris Time in seconds past J2000 (ET) using the most recent time
conversion (SCLK) file. The spacecraft position at the ET shot time is
interpolated from the SPK file. The spacecraft orientation SPICE file
(CK) is resampled at 1-second intervals of whole seconds and convolved
with a 9-point, centered, finite-impulse-response filter to reduce
high-rate gyro noise. Coefficients of the filter (unnormalized) are
given below. The noise reduction allows slow-scanning ground tracks to
move more smoothly across the surface, and only slightly affects
positional accuracy during high-rate slews.

Table 2
Orientation filter convolution coefficients vs. convolution index:

Index   Coefficient
-4       0.19 
-3       0.69
-2       1.31 
-1       1.81
 0       2.0
 1       1.81
 2       1.31 
 3       0.69 
 4       0.19

The filtered spacecraft orientation matrix transforms vectors from the
J2000 inertial reference frame to the instrument deck
(NEAR_SC_BUS_PRIME) frame. In this frame, observations are taken in
the positive X-direction. A fixed boresight offset with respect to
this frame is assumed. The NLR laser boresight orientation was obtained from
a least-squares relocation of the NLR bounce points (Neumann, et al. 2001),
that minimized altimetric errors at crossovers.
The Euler angles of the boresight are provided as a SPICE instrument
kernel (IK) file, from which a transformation matrix from NEAR to NLR
frame is derived.

The J2000-to-NLR frame matrix is calculated from the smoothed CK by
matrix composition.  The one-way time-of-flight from the laser range
is added to the laser fire time to obtain the bounce point time, and
the calibrated one-way range vector is projected from the spacecraft
state at this time along the boresight to obtain the surface bounce
point position in inertial coordinates with respect to the asteroid
center-of-mass.  The inertial position is then rotated to the asteroid
body-fixed coordinate system using satellite/planet position and
orientation files (PCK).

The asteroid-located radius vector is given in both radial coordinates
and as a Cartesian position vector. The angle subtended by the bounce
point to spacecraft position vector and the radius vector is
calculated. This angle is loosely termed the EMISSION_ANGLE, assuming
a spherical body. Normally an emission angle greater than 90 degrees would
indicate a missed shot, but due to the irregular shape of 433 Eros,
emission angles >120 degrees were obtained. The off-pointing angle from the
asteroid center (OFF_NADIR angle) is also given.

Lastly, the potential due to gravity and rotation at the shot
location is calculated (Cheng, et al. 2001) assuming
a uniform density of 2670 kg m^-3 and the NLR shape model NLR125AR.IMG.
Since the asteroid is irregularly shaped, a simple topographic datum
does not exist. The potential field represents the work required to
transport a particle of unit mass from the shot point to another fixed
position with respect to the rotating body. The potential divided by an
average gravitational acceleration can be interpreted as a proxy for
topographic height in geophysical analyses.

References

Cole, T., M. Boies, A. El-Dinary, A.F. Cheng, M. Zuber, and D.E.
Smith, The Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Laser Altimeter, Space
Science Reviews, 82, 217-253, 1997.

Cheng, A,F, Cole, T.D., Zuber, M.T., Smith, D.E., Guo, Y. and
Davidson,F., In-Flight Calibration of the Near Earth Asteroid
Rendezvous Laser Rangefinder, Icarus, 148, 572-586, 2000.

Cheng, A.F., Barnouin-Jha, O., Prockter, L., Zuber, M.T.,
Neumann, G., Smith, D.E., Garvin, J., Robinson, M., Veverka, J.,
and Thomas, P., Small Scale Topography of 433 Eros from Laser
Altimetry and Imaging, Icarus, in press, 2001.

Neumann, G.A., Rowlands, D.D., Lemoine, F.G., Smith, D.E., and
Zuber, M.T., Crossover analysis of Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter
data, Journal of Geophysical Research, in press, 2001.

Zuber, M., D.E. Smith, A.F. Cheng, and T.D. Cole, The NEAR Laser
Ranging Investigation, Journal of Geophysical Research, 102,
23761-23773, 1997.

