PDS_VERSION_ID                = PDS3                                          
RECORD_TYPE                   = STREAM                                        
OBJECT                        = TEXT                                          
  PUBLICATION_DATE            = 2001-07-20                                    
  NOTE                        = "Description of the EROS_OBSV_GUIDE           
     files in this directory."                                                
END_OBJECT                    = TEXT                                          
END                                                                           
                                                                              
Column Descriptions for the MSI Eros Observation Guides:                      
                                                                              
The MSI Eros Observation Guides are spreadsheets that describe some basic     
information about each MSI observation that was acquired during the NEAR      
mission starting with 1998-210.  There is one line per observation. An        
'observation' is a convenient unit for organizing the data and refers to      
the process of sequencing. The observations within the Eros guides were       
developed using the SEQGEN software. This is in contrast to the               
sequences prior to 1998 which were built by hand using STOL. A different      
organizational structure for the supporting files was required for each       
which is why the spreadsheets were divided in this manner.                    
                                                                              
                                                                              
The following fields are recorded:                                            
                                                                              
1. Orbit                                                                      
   An entry in this column identifies when an orbit correction maneuver       
   was performed.  By example, when a value reads "325x266" it means          
   that on that day, the spacecraft entered into an elliptical orbit          
   with radii of 325x266 km. More information about spacecraft orbital        
   position and viewing geometry can be found in the                          
   eros_orbital_info.txt file.  See also the observation_overview.txt         
   file; in chapter 13 there is a table of maneuvers performed during         
   the orbital mission.                                                       
                                                                              
2. Sub-solar Latitude -  latitude of a point on Eros where a line             
   connecting the sun and Eros center pierces the surface                     
                                                                              
3.  Observation                                                               
    This is a unique descriptive term identifying the name of the             
    observation. This represents a unit of sequencing which acquired a        
    set of images.  The data acquired within an observation were              
    generally taken as a discrete event with a common purpose. In the         
    sequence files, (i.e., 00066_final_sasf.txt) a single 'Request'           
    usually corresponds to one observation in this spreadsheet. The           
    names will be similar but not always identical. Occasionally a            
    Request is broken into several observations.                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
4.  Year-Doy                                                                  
    This describes the year and day of year of the start of the               
    observation.                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
5.  Sequence -                                                                
    In the Eros spreadsheets, this column refers to a subdirectory which      
    corresponds to the 'sequencing week' during which that observation        
    was created. Sequences were generated once per week (duration 1           
    week) during the orbital phase and were identified by this 5 digit        
    integer which essentially tells you the year and doy of the start of      
    that sequence (98306 was the sequence that started on or about doy        
    306, 1998). In the corresponding subdirectory you will find the gif       
    plots for that weeks observations, the sequence file                      
    (98306_final_sasf.txt), the imagelist (98306.imagelist), and the          
    expanded command files (98306.msi and 98306.nis).  More information       
    about interpreting these files can be found in eros_seq_archive.txt.      
                                                                              
6.  MET Range                                                                 
    This is the range of METs  for the observation (spacecraft mets for       
    first and last images in the observation).                                
                                                                              
7.  Start UTC                                                                 
    This is the UTC of the first image in the observation.                    
                                                                              
8.  End  UTC                                                                  
    This is the UTC of the last image in the observation.                     
                                                                              
9.  Sequence ID                                                               
    This column lists all SEQ IDs called for execution during the             
    observation.                                                              
                                                                              
    Up to 30 unique Sequence Definitions were resident in the MSI DPU         
    during the Eros mission phases.  Each of these 30 Sequence                
    Definitions contains a parameter, the Seq ID, which is an integer         
    between 1 and 30, that uniquely distinguishes it from the other Seq       
    Defs.  A Sequence Definition defines the format by which images are       
    acquired (number of images, spacing, compression, exposures,              
    filters, etc).  They  were executed by calling the Seq ID. We could       
    redefine the parameter values in any or all of the Sequence               
    Definitions at any time during the mission. For the most part, we         
    were able to keep the set of 30 constant for most of the orbital          
    phase but various factors required that some of them be changed           
    periodically.  The msi_seqid_log.txt contains a log entry for each        
    Seq ID, sorted by time, every time that Sequence Definition was           
    changed. It also describes the fields within a Sequence Definition.       
                                                                              
    Often more than one Seq Def was used within a given observation. For      
    instance, Seq IDs 20 and 19 were often used to take the 3 color           
    'cleaned' observations. The auto exposures were taken with Sequence       
    20, and manual zero exposures were taken with Sequence 19 and they        
    were executed within an observation as a pair.                            
                                                                              
    An alternative way to know what compression, exposures, filters, etc      
    were used in an observation is to look in the individual image            
    headers. The imagelist is also a good source to get an overview, but      
    it does not give compression info (i.e., eros/00066/00066.imagelist)      
                                                                              
10. Filters                                                                   
    This is a list of the filters that were used during this Sequence.        
                                                                              
11. Number of Nonzero Images                                                  
    This is the number of images acquired by this observation which had       
    non-zero exposure values.                                                 
                                                                              
12. Number of Zero Exp Images                                                 
    This is the number images acquired by this observation which had          
    zero exposure values.                                                     
                                                                              
13. Compression                                                               
    This is a shortcut description of the type of compression used for        
    the images acquired in this observation.  Generally, during the 2000      
    data, when it says Table5, it means Table5, ON, FAST.  When it ways       
    Lossless, it means NONE, ON, FAST.  See SeqIDs for more detail.           
    Compression info is also available in the image header.                   
                                                                              
14. Description                                                               
    A short description of the observation.                                   
                                                                              
15. Detailed Description -                                                    
    In a few cases there are text files that offer more detailed              
    information. They will be linked from the spreadsheet, or at the          
    very least referenced by name. They will be located in the main           
    /eros subdirectory. The observation_overview.txt also contains            
    detailed descriptions of many observations.                               
                                                                              
15. Gifs -                                                                    
    These are predict plots generated by our visualization program            
    Orbit. They show the MSI and sometimes NIS fields of view plotted         
    onto a 3-d representation of Eros shape.  Often an observation            
    continued over the course of many hours. It is impossible to capture      
    the observation design in a single plot,  but we were very pressed        
    for time and tried to at least give the flavor of the observation in      
    the simplest manner. Plots do not exist for every observation.            
    Sometimes, but not always,  there is a short description in the           
    comment area on the plot itself which will help explain the               
    observation.                                                              
                                                                              
    The colored axes represent the asteroid body fixed system in Eros.        
    The red axis is the +X, prime meridian (0 longitude). The green axis      
    is +Y, which is 90 E long, or 270 W long.  The blue axis is the           
    north pole of Eros, it is also the spin pole, +Z, for the                 
    right-handed system these axes make up. Direction of spin of Eros is      
    determined by putting right thumb in direction of blue axis, fingers      
    pointing along +X, red axis, then curl fingers.  The direction in         
    which your fingers curl is the direction that Eros is spinning.  The      
    times shown in the middle of the plot usually represent the bounding      
    mets and utcs for the frames displayed.                                   
