PDS_VERSION_ID                = PDS3                                          
RECORD_TYPE                   = STREAM                                        
OBJECT                        = TEXT                                          
  PUBLICATION_DATE            = 2001-09-01                                    
  NOTE                        = "Description of the                           
     PRE_EROS_OBSV_GUIDE files in this directory."                            
END_OBJECT                    = TEXT                                          
END                                                                           
                                                                              
Column Descriptions for the MSI Pre_Eros Observation Guide:                   
                                                                              
The MSI Pre_Eros observation guide describes some basic information           
about each MSI observation that was acquired during the NEAR mission          
prior to 1998. An 'observation' is a convenient unit for organizing the       
data and refers to the process of sequencing. The observations within         
these guides were developed essentially by hand in STOL.  This differs        
from the sequences after 998-210 which were built in SEQGEN.   A              
different organizational structure was required for each which is why         
the mission was divided in this manner.                                       
                                                                              
                                                                              
The following fields are recorded:                                            
                                                                              
1. Orbit                                                                      
   Occasional entries in this column give range to target (tbd). This is      
   only applicable for the Mathilde flyby and the EarthMoon Swingby.          
   Additional range and viewing information will be available in the          
   mathilde_orbital_info.txt and earthmoon_orbital_info.txt files, in         
   the respective subdirectories.                                             
                                                                              
2. Sub-solar Latitude -  tbd, will be sub-solar latitude on the target        
   (earth or mathilde).                                                       
                                                                              
3.  Observation                                                               
    This is a unique descriptive term identifying the name of the             
    observation. This represents a unit of sequencing which acquired a        
    set of images.  The data acquired within an observation were              
    generally taken as a discrete event with a common purpose.                
                                                                              
                                                                              
4.  Year-Doy                                                                  
    This describes the year and day of year of the start of the               
    observation.                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
5.  Sequence -                                                                
    In the Pre_Eros spreadsheet, this column will be a link to the STOL       
    script for the sequence.  Sometimes this will be preceded by a text       
    description of the sequence.  The pre_eros_seq_archive.txt has some       
    examples which will show you how to interpret the STOL script.            
    Please refer to the observation_overview.txt file for the names and       
    locations of additional files available such as imagelists.               
                                                                              
                                                                              
6.  MET Range                                                                 
    This is the range of METs  for the observation (spacecraft mets for       
    first and last images in the observation).                                
                                                                              
7.  Start UTC                                                                 
    This is the UTC of the first image in the observation.                    
                                                                              
8.  End  UTC                                                                  
    This is the UTC of the last image in the observation.                     
                                                                              
9. Sequence ID (tbd)                                                          
   Up to 12 unique Sequence Definitions were resident in the MSI DPU          
   during the Pre_Eros  phases.  Each of these Sequence Definitions           
   contains a parameter, the Seq ID, which is an integer between 1 and        
   12, that uniquely distinguishes it from the other Seq Defs.  A             
   Sequence Definition defines the format by which images are acquired        
   (number of images, spacing, compression, exposures, filters, etc).         
   Seq Defs were executed by calling the Seq ID. We could redefine the        
   parameter values in any or all of the Sequence Definitions at any          
   time during the mission.  There is currently no SeqID log available        
   for this period as in the Eros phases. But you can go to the STOL          
   sequence file and find where the SEQ ID has been loaded just prior to      
   the observation. (if I have time before the final is due I'll  list        
   these out in some useful manner).                                          
                                                                              
   A better way to get the same information is to look in the image           
   header, where you can  find listed the compression, exposure values,       
   and so forth for that image.  An imagelist (if available) is another       
   way to get an overview of some of this information.                        
                                                                              
10. Filters                                                                   
    This is a list of the filters that were used during this Sequence.        
                                                                              
11. Number of Nonzero Images                                                  
    This is the number of images acquired by this observation which had       
    non-zero exposure values.                                                 
                                                                              
12. Number of Zero Exp Images                                                 
    This is the number images acquired by this observation which had          
    zero exposure values.                                                     
                                                                              
13. Compression                                                               
    This lists the type of compression used for the images acquired in        
    this observation.  (tbd)                                                  
                                                                              
14. Description                                                               
    A short description of the observation.                                   
                                                                              
15. Detailed Description -                                                    
    In a few cases there are text files that offer more detailed              
    information. They will be linked from the spreadsheet, or at the          
    very least referenced by name. They will be located in the /pre_eros      
    subdirectory. The observation_overview.txt also contains detailed         
    descriptions of many observations.                                        
                                                                              
16. Gifs -                                                                    
    These are predict plots generated by our visualization program            
    Orbit. They show the MSI and sometimes NIS fields of view plotted         
    against a 3-d representation of the target.  Often an observation         
    continued over the course of many hours. It is impossible to capture      
    the observation design in a single plot,  but we were very pressed        
    for time and tried to at least give the flavor of the observation in      
    the simplest manner. Plots do not exist for every observation.            
    Sometimes, but not always,  there is a short description in the           
    comment area on the plot itself which will help explain the               
    observation.                                                              
                                                                              
    The times shown in the middle of the plot usually represent the           
    bounding mets and utcs for the frames displayed.                          
                                                                              
    The best way to look at these sequences is with our visualization         
    s/w, called Orbit.  Even though many of these observations last           
    hours, during which the view to Eros changes considerably,  we can        
    only show one view in these gifs. In orbit you can step through the       
    sequence frame by frame and watch how the view to eros changes. I         
    would like to make this program available in binary form.  If you         
    need it and want it, contact us at Cornell. We might make it              
    available on our public ftp site.                                         
