                                                                              
NEAR-EARTH ASTEROID RENDEZVOUS PROJECT                                        
ARCHIVE GENERATION, VALIDATION, AND                                           
TRANSFER PLAN                                                                 
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Prepared by:                                                                  
                                                                              
D. Davis and C. Neese                                                         
Planetary Science Institute                                                   
620 North Sixth Avenue                                                        
Tucson, Arizona 85705-8331                                                    
                                                                              
                                                                              
E. Grayzeck                                                                   
University of Maryland                                                        
College Park, Maryland 20742                                                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
D. Holland                                                                    
Science Data Center Manager                                                   
NEAR Project                                                                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
February 14, 1998                                                             
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
NEAR-EARTH ASTEROID RENDEZVOUS PROJECT                                        
ARCHIVE GENERATION, VALIDATION, AND                                           
TRANSFER PLAN                                                                 
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Approved by:                                                                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
M.H. Acuna                                                                    
Team Leader, MAG                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Date                                                                          
                                                                              
J.I. Trombka                                                                  
Team Leader, XGRS                                                             
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Date                                                                          
M. F. A'Hearn                                                                 
Node Manager                                                                  
Small Bodies Node, PDS                                                        
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Date                                                                          
                                                                              
J. Veverka                                                                    
Team Leader, MSI-VIS                                                          
Date                                                                          
T. Morgan                                                                     
NEAR Program Scientist                                                        
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Date                                                                          
                                                                              
D.K. Yeomans                                                                  
Team Leader, RS                                                               
                                                                              
                                                                              
Date                                                                          
A.F. Cheng                                                                    
NEAR Project Scientist                                                        
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Date                                                                          
                                                                              
M.T. Zuber                                                                    
Team Leader, NLR                                                              
Date                                                                          
S. McMahon                                                                    
Project Manager                                                               
Planetary Data System                                                         
Date                                                                          
                                                                              
T. Coughlin                                                                   
NEAR Project Manager                                                          
Date                                                                          
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
CHANGE PAGE                                                                   
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                             
                                                                              
1.0          INTRODUCTION                                                     
                                                                              
2.0          OVERVIEW OF NEAR MISSION                                         
2.1          MISSION OVERVIEW                                                 
2.2          GROUND DATA SYSTEM                                               
                                                                              
3.0          ARCHIVING FUNCTIONS                                              
3.1          OVERVIEW OF THE ARCHIVING FUNCTIONS                              
3.2          ARCHIVE DESIGN                                                   
3.3          GENERATION OF ARCHIVE                                            
3.4          VALIDATION OF ARCHIVE                                            
3.5          FURTHER INFORMATION                                              
                                                                              
4.0          ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                       
4.1          RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NEAR PROJECT                             
4.2          RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PDS                                      
4.3          RESPONSIBILITIES OF NSSDC                                        
                                                                              
5.0          NEAR ARCHIVE STRUCTURE                                           
5.1          OVERVIEW OF THE ARCHIVE STRUCTURE                                
5.2          THE VOLUME DOCUMENTATION FILES                                   
5.3          THE DATA SET COLLECTIONS                                         
                                                                              
6.0          SCHEDULE FOR GENERATION, VALIDATION, AND DELIVERY                
                                                                              
7.0          NEAR DATA RELEASE POLICY                                         
                                                                              
Appendix A                    NEAR Science Data Products                      
                                                                              
Appendix B                    Glossary of Terms and Acronyms                  
                                                                              
Appendix C                    Data Level Definitions                          
                                                                              
Appendix D                    NEAR Project Data Policy                        
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
1.          Introduction.                                                     
                                                                              
This document defines the process of archiving data from the NEAR mission     
with the Planetary Data System (PDS), including the design, generation,       
validation, and transfer of the data archive to PDS.  The archive will        
include raw and reduced data, navigation data necessary for the               
interpretation of the data, documentation, and software.                      
                                                                              
Section 2 gives an overview of the NEAR mission including the Ground Data     
System by means of which the data stream will be converted into science data  
products.  Section 3 provides an overview of the steps necessary to produce   
the NEAR data archive, while Section 4 specifies the roles of each of the     
participants in the archiving process, and assigns responsibility for each of 
the archiving functions.  Section 5 outlines the upper-level structure of the 
archive itself.  Details of the archive structure down to the file level will 
be determined later as information about the data products from each          
instrument becomes available, and will be specified in the Software Interface 
Specification (SIS) documents.  Section 6 provides the schedule for data      
archiving, and section 7 specifies the data release policy for the NEAR       
mission.                                                                      
                                                                              
For reference, a list of the NEAR science data products expected from each    
instrument, a glossary of acronyms used in this document, and the data level  
definitions are given in the appendices.                                      
                                                                              
2.          Overview of the NEAR Mission.                                     
                                                                              
2.1          Mission Overview                                                 
                                                                              
The Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) spacecraft was launched on February 
17, 1996, and is planned to rendezvous with the S-class near-earth asteroid   
433 Eros. First detection of Eros by the NEAR instruments is expected to      
occur in the fall of 1998, and rendezvous maneuvers will begin on January 10, 
1999, with the initial close approach to Eros.  NEAR will remain in orbit to  
study the asteroid for the rest of the nominal mission which will end on      
February 6, 2000.  Prior to reaching 433 Eros, NEAR will fly within 1200 km   
of the C-class main-belt asteroid 253 Mathilde on June 27, 1997.              
                                                                              
The instruments aboard NEAR include the Multispectral Imager (MSI), the Near  
Infrared Spectrometer (NIS), the X-ray/Gamma-ray Spectrometer (XGRS), the     
Magnetometer (MAG), and the NEAR Laser Rangefinder (NLR).  In addition, the   
Radio Science (RS) experiment will use the NEAR telemetry system to determine 
the mass and gravity field of the asteroid.                                   
                                                                              
2.2          Ground Data System                                               
                                                                              
The NEAR Ground Data System is the mechanism by which the raw spacecraft data 
stream will be converted to science data products.  The Mission Operations    
Center (MOC), located at APL, will be responsible for monitoring the status   
of the spacecraft and payloads, commanding the spacecraft and payloads, and   
coordinating real-time mission planning.  The MOC will receive telemetry      
packets from DSN and process them to level 0 through 0b, providing the level  
0b data to the Science Data Center (SDC).                                     
The Science Data Center (SDC), also at APL, will support the processing,      
analysis, and archiving of the science data.  In particular, the SDC will     
support the Science Teams, providing easy access to all the data required by  
the teams, and coordinating archival of products produced by the teams to the 
Planetary Data System.                                                        
                                                                              
The SDC will accept and process telemetry, command history, and navigation    
data, creating the Experiment Data Records (EDRs), calibration files, and     
telemetry archive.  Also, the SDC will coordinate with Mission Operations to  
collect science sequence priorities from the Science Teams, and will          
coordinate with JPL to develop the asteroid kinematics model, gravity model,  
and shape model.                                                              
                                                                              
3.          Archiving Functions.                                              
                                                                              
3.1          Overview of the Archiving Functions                              
                                                                              
The archive will contain science data products from each of the instruments,  
navigation and geometry data from the SPICE kernels, software, and sufficient 
documentation of the data, software, and mission to enable future scientists  
to understand and use the archive.  To produce this archive, a number of      
steps need to be carried out, including design of the archive structure and   
contents, generation of the archive components, validation, and final         
packaging and delivery.  The science data products form the core of the       
archive, and a list of the expected data products from each of the            
instruments is given in Appendix A.                                           
                                                                              
3.2          Archive Design                                                   
                                                                              
The dataset to be archived from the NEAR project is expected to be several    
tens of GB in size.  The archive will be delivered using CDs or digital       
versatile disks (DVDs), as appropriate.  The data will be ordered by time     
first, then by instrument, and further divided by type of data, if relevant.  
Figure 1 illustrates the structure of a typical volume of the archive.  Data  
types and volumes for each instrument and archive component and for the total 
archive are shown in Table 1.  The details of what components are included in 
the archive and how they are grouped into data sets, subdirectories, and      
files comprises the design of the archive. The upper level structure and      
contents of the archive are described in more detail in Section 5.  The       
arrangement of the final details of the archive down to the file level will   
not be specified until more detailed information on the data products and     
other components are available.  When the final detailed structure of the     
archive is established, it will be recorded in Software Interface             
Specification (SIS) documents.                                                
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Table 1                                                                       
Data Volumes for Archive Components                                           
                                                                              
                                                                              
Archive Component                                                             
Data Type                                                                     
Data Volume                                                                   
(MB)                                                                          
MSI                                                                           
Raw Images                                                                    
Mosaicked Images                                                              
Calibrations                                                                  
Shape Data                                                                    
Support Data                                                                  
                                                                              
NIS                                                                           
Raw Spectra                                                                   
Calibrations                                                                  
Calibrated Spectra                                                            
Image Cubes                                                                   
                                                                              
XGRS                                                                          
Raw Data File                                                                 
X-ray Maps                                                                    
Gamma-Ray Maps                                                                
Elemental Composition Maps                                                    
                                                                              
RS                                                                            
Raw Data (Doppler vs. Time)                                                   
Doppler Residuals                                                             
Gravity Maps                                                                  
Other                                                                         
                                                                              
NLR                                                                           
Raw Time Tagged Data                                                          
Altimetry Data Products                                                       
Gravity and Dynamics                                                          
                                                                              
MAG                                                                           
Uncorrected B Components vs. Time                                             
B(t) Time Series                                                              
Calibrated Spherical Harmonic Models                                          
                                                                              
MERGE                                                                         
Shape models                                                                  
                                                                              
Navigation                                                                    
Mission History File - Mission Wide                                           
SPICE Kernels                                                                 
                                                                              
Software                                                                      
Calibration Algorithms                                                        
Higher Level Software (as provided by Science Team)                           
                                                                              
Documentation                                                                 
                                                                              
                                                                              
Total archive                                                                 
                                                                              
?50-100 GB                                                                    
                                                                              
                                                                              
3.3          Generation of the Archive                                        
                                                                              
Responsibility for generating archive components is specified in Section 4.   
Science data products will be generated in PDS-compatible formats.  This      
requires that each data file (data table or image file) be in a format        
approved by PDS and be accompanied by a PDS "label", actually a detached      
descriptive header file describing formally the content and structure of the  
accompanying data file.  Navigation and geometry data necessary to interpret  
the data (e.g. spacecraft ephemeris and attitude records, command histories,  
and spacecraft housekeeping files) will be extracted from the SPICE kernels   
and provided as ancillary archive components.  The source code of all         
software to be provided with the archive will be collected and documented.    
In addition, files documenting the archive components will be prepared by the 
parties generating the data.  In general, all information necessary to        
interpret and use the data are to be included in the archive.                 
                                                                              
The PDS provides for the documentation of the mission, spacecraft,            
instruments, and data products with special documenting files called "catalog 
objects".  Since the catalog objects take the form of a template which must   
be filled out with prescribed information, they are also (misleadingly)       
referred to as "templates" even when they are already filled out.  The        
required templates are the mission template, describing the NEAR mission as a 
whole, the "instrument host template" describing the spacecraft, one          
instrument template for each instrument, and one data set template for each   
data set.  These templates should contain all information necessary to        
document the archive, and ideally should make it possible for scientists to   
make correct use of the data in the distant future when the mission personnel 
are not available to support them.  The PDS will fill in the formal portions  
of the catalog objects, requiring only text descriptions of the mission,      
spacecraft, instruments, and data sets from NEAR.                             
                                                                              
3.4          Validation of the Archive                                        
                                                                              
Data validation falls into two types, validation of the data itself and       
validation of the compliance of the archive with PDS archiving requirements.  
The first type of validation will be carried out by the Science Teams, and    
the second will be overseen by the PDS, in coordination with the teams and    
the SDC.  The delivery schedule of four separate delivery dates for different 
portions of the mission will facilitate validation by insuring that problems  
in the early deliveries are resolved by the time of the later deliveries and  
the final archive.                                                            
                                                                              
The formal validation of data content, adequacy of documentation, and         
adherence to PDS archiving standards is finalized with an external peer       
review.  The peer review will be coordinated by the PDS.  The peer review     
process may result in "liens", actions recommended by the reviewers or by PDS 
personnel to correct the archive.  All liens must be resolved by the dataset  
provider:  the SDC for level 1b and calibration data, the science teams for   
higher level data products and calibration algorithms.  Once the liens are    
cleared, PDS will do a final validation prior to packaging and delivery.      
                                                                              
3.5          Final Packaging and Delivery                                     
                                                                              
The data delivery will take place in four stages, as specified in the         
timeline in Figure 2.  Each subsidiary delivery will be made to PDS on a hard 
medium such CD-ROMS.  The final data delivery will incorporate the entire     
archive, including the earlier data deliveries.                               
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
3.6          Further Information                                              
                                                                              
An introduction to PDS archiving is available at                              
http://pds-staging.sbn.astro.umd.edu.  More detailed information on data archiving in 
the PDS can be found in the PDS Data Preparation Workbook (DPW) and in the    
PDS Standards Reference (SR).                                                 
                                                                              
4.          Roles and Responsibilities.                                       
                                                                              
This section describes the roles and responsibilities of the personnel and    
organizations involved in generating, validating, transferring and            
distributing the NEAR archive.  The NEAR project and NEAR science teams are   
responsible for archive generation and validation; the Planetary Data System  
(PDS) has the responsibility of ensuring that the archive meets PDS standards 
(including peer review of the data), advising the project and science teams   
on archive related issues, maintaining active archives of NEAR products for   
access by the science community and being the interface with NSSDC for "deep  
archiving" of NEAR data.                                                      
                                                                              
4.1          Responsibilities of the NEAR Project                             
                                                                              
The NEAR archive consists of products generated by the NEAR project and by    
the individual science teams.  The Project Science Team has the overall       
responsibility of setting observing priorities for the spacecraft instruments 
in order to meet the fundamental science goals of the NEAR project.  The      
ensemble data from these observations constitute the raw science data, the    
fundamental element of the archive.                                           
                                                                              
a)          Science Data Center                                               
                                                                              
The SDC is responsible for generating and validating the level 1b science     
data files, calibration files, spacecraft ephemeris and spacecraft attitude   
records, a history of all commands and spacecraft housekeeping files, the     
asteroid shape and kinematic models, and the source code and associated       
documentation of software used to generate the data products.  The software   
is quite important so that a future user can redo the calibration without     
recourse to the science teams.                                                
                                                                              
The SDC will prepare the Software Interface Specification (SIS) documents,    
which are an invaluable documentation of the archive structure and content    
both for internal use and for future users of the archive.                    
                                                                              
The SDC is also responsible for clearing all liens generated by the review    
process on products produced by the SDC.                                      
                                                                              
b)          Science Teams                                                     
                                                                              
The team leader of each science team is responsible for delivering to the SDC 
a complete and validated archive of all files necessary for final data        
calibration, and all higher level data products (levels 2 and 3) produced by  
the team, along with source code for software and associated documentation.   
                                                                              
The team leader of each science team is also responsible for clearing all     
liens generated by the review process on products produced by his/her team.   
                                                                              
c)          Archive Production                                                
                                                                              
The NEAR project has the responsibility of producing (premastering of CD-     
ROMS) the final archive volumes and distributing these volumes to the NEAR    
community.                                                                    
                                                                              
4.2          Responsibilities of the PDS                                      
                                                                              
The Small Bodies Node (SBN) is the lead node for interfacing with the NEAR    
mission and will be supported by the PPI node (magnetometer data), radio      
science subnode (radio science data), imaging node (imaging data), and NAIF   
node (SPICE data).  Specific functions of PDS are:                            
                                                                              
a)          Archive Generation Activity:  Support the generation of the       
archive by advising the project/science teams on PDS archive standards,       
requirements and documentation needs.  PDS/SBN will also support the data     
validation activity to ensure that the formal peer review process, a          
requirement for data ingestion into PDS, proceeds with a minimum of problems. 
                                                                              
b)          Conduct a formal peer review of the archive.  This is a PDS       
mandated step before any data can be ingested into PDS.                       
                                                                              
c)          Offer support to NEAR Project Science Teams and SDC in the        
resolution of liens that arise in the course of the peer review.              
                                                                              
d)          Produce archive volumes for distribution to the NASA supported    
science community.                                                            
                                                                              
e)          Provide the data archive volumes to NSSDC.                        
                                                                              
4.3          Responsibilities of NSSDC                                        
                                                                              
NSSDC is responsible for "deep" archiving of NEAR data for long-term          
preservation and for filling large data orders to the science community per   
the Memorandum of Understanding, dated January 13, 1994, between the PDS and  
NSSDC.                                                                        
                                                                              
5.          NEAR Archive Structure.                                           
                                                                              
5.1          Overview of the Archive Structure                                
                                                                              
The NEAR archive will be broken down into data set collections, one for each  
instrument and one for data sets deriving from more than one instrument (the  
MERGE data set collection).  A typical volume will contain data from a        
specified time interval.  The top level directory of a volume will thus       
contain directories for each of the data set collections and directories for  
each of the additional components of the archive, as required by PDS.  The    
directories in the top level directory of the volume are given in Table 2.    
                                                                              
Table 2                                                                       
Top-Level Components of a NEAR Archive Volume                                 
DIRECTORIES                                                                   
Contents                                                                      
                                                                              
DOCUMENT                                                                      
Text files serving as documentation for the archive.                          
CATALOG                                                                       
The catalog objects (templates) required by PDS to document the mission,      
spacecraft, instruments, and data sets.                                       
SOFTWARE                                                                      
Software to be included with the archive.                                     
CALIB                                                                         
Calibration files.  Calibrations may also be included within individual data  
sets.                                                                         
GEOMETRY                                                                      
Data necessary to describe the observing geometry, such as spice kernels.     
INDEX                                                                         
Index files to enable the user to find the data of interest.                  
MSI                                                                           
The MSI data set collection.                                                  
NIS                                                                           
The NIS data set collection.                                                  
XGRS                                                                          
The XGRS data set collection.                                                 
MAG                                                                           
The magnetometer data set collection.                                         
NLR                                                                           
The NLR data set collection.                                                  
RS                                                                            
The radio science data set collection.                                        
MERGE                                                                         
The collection of data sets originating from more than one instrument.        
                                                                              
                                                                              
5.2          The Volume Documentation Files                                   
                                                                              
PDS requires a number of volume documentation files for each archive volume,  
including aareadme.txt, a text file describing the contents of the volume,    
and voldesc.cat, a machine-readable file with a catalog of all the files      
residing on the volume. Each of the directories under the top level directory 
also requires one or more volume documentation files to document the contents 
of that directory. The details of these files are specified in the PDS        
Standards Reference.                                                          
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
5.3          The Data Set Collections                                         
                                                                              
The list of expected data products from each of the NEAR instruments, as      
provided by the science teams at the May 1995 Science Team Meeting, is given  
in Appendix A.  The data products from each instrument will comprise a data   
set collection, and within each of these data set collections, the individual 
data products will be grouped into data sets.  As an example, a suggested     
grouping of the MSI data products into data sets is presented in Table 3.     
Similarly, the data products from each of the other instruments will also be  
grouped into data sets.                                                       
                                                                              
Table 3                                                                       
The MSI Data Set Collection                                                   
                                                                              
Data Sets                                                                     
Data Products                                                                 
Raw images                                                                    
Raw images                                                                    
Calibration files                                                             
Calibration files                                                             
Mosaicked images                                                              
Global color map                                                              
Global B/W map                                                                
Regional high-res maps                                                        
Shape data                                                                    
Control point network                                                         
Shape model (1x1 degree, resolution ?20m)                                     
Grid overlays for selected images                                             
Global digital image mosaic (6m/pix) with topographic overlay (8pix/deg)      
Support data                                                                  
Mission history file                                                          
Updated pointing for all images                                               
Improved rotational elements                                                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
6.          Schedule for Archive Generation, Validation, and Delivery.        
                                                                              
The principal archive elements, namely the science data products defined in   
Appendix A, will be generated during the course of the mission, as will many  
ancillary products such as SPICE files.  The general guideline for Discovery  
missions is that they deliver data and calibration files to PDS at six-month  
intervals.                                                                    
                                                                              
The timeline for archive delivery to PDS is shown in Figure 2.  The final     
archive delivery is to be made 90 days after the end of the nominal mission   
in order to allow time for PDS review and lien resolution before the end of   
SDC operations.  There are three additional PDS data delivery dates planned:  
Mathilde encounter data (December 31, 1997, six months after the encounter);  
Earth encounter data (August, 1998, six months after Earth encounter); and    
one intermediate delivery of Eros data (12/31/99).  The final archive         
delivery will include updated versions of each of the preliminary deliveries. 
                                                                              
Following the delivery of data to PDS is a several-month-long period in which 
the data will be peer reviewed by PDS.  Any liens that are identified by the  
peer review process will be rectified by the Project and the appropriate      
science teams before they cease operation (expected to be 30 days after the   
end of mission for science teams and 10/01/2000 for the SDC)  The NEAR        
project is responsible for resolving all liens against the final archive      
delivery.  Final acceptance of the data by PDS will occur only after all      
liens have been cleared.  The early delivery of data to PDS, such as the      
Mathilde encounter data, will help to identify early in the mission any       
potential problems that can be addressed before the final archive is          
generated, thus avoiding liens on the data that require significant resources 
to correct.                                                                   
                                                                              
7.          NEAR Data Release Policy.                                         
                                                                              
There are no proprietary data rights for the NEAR Mission.  Most uncalibrated 
(level 1b) data, particularly image data, will be publicly released by the    
NEAR project over Internet in close to real time.  The full NEAR Project Data 
Policy is given in Appendix D.                                                
                                                                              
Fully reduced, calibrated and corrected data products (levels 2 and 3) will   
be produced under the direction of the science teams for delivery to PDS per  
the schedule given in Section 6.  The Team Leaders are responsible for        
coordinating all scientific investigations involving the use of calibrated    
data (levels 2 and 3) from their respective instruments and ensuring that all 
science data products are delivered in a timely fashion.                      
                                                                              
                                                                              
Appendix A.          NEAR Science Data Products                               
                                                                              
Data products listed by the science teams at the May 1995 NEAR Science Team   
Meeting, with additional fundamental (level 1) data suggested for archiving   
by the PDS.                                                                   
                                                                              
Multispectral Imager (MSI)                                                    
                                                                              
Validated raw images in PDS format with ancillary information.                
Complete pre-flight calibration files with documentation.                     
Complete in-flight calibration files with documentation.                      
"Best" final calibration files, calibration algorithms, and optimum           
parameters.                                                                   
Mosaicked images:                                                             
          global B/W map.                                                     
          global color map.                                                   
          regional high-res maps.                                             
Mission history file (objectives of sequences, anomalies, etc.)               
          (an observing log indicating what has changed and why.)             
Support data:                                                                 
          A)          Updated pointing (all images).                          
          B)          Improved rotational elements.                           
          C)          Control point network.                                  
          D)          Shape model (1x1 degree, R?20m)                         
          E)          Grid overlays for selected images.                      
          F)          Global digital image mosaic (6m/pix) with topographic   
overlay (8pix/deg).                                                           
                                                                              
Near-Infrared Spectrograph (NIS)                                              
                                                                              
Validated raw 62-channel data, in PDS format, with ancillary information.     
Complete pre-flight calibration files with documentation.                     
Complete in-flight calibration files with documentation.                      
"Best" final calibration files, calibration algorithms, and optimum           
parameters.                                                                   
Individual I/F calibrated spectra in PDS format with ancillary information.   
Mosaicked map-projected image cubes (format TBD, but compatible with MSI).    
Mission history file (objectives of sequences, anomalies, etc.)               
                                                                              
X-ray/Gamma-ray Spectrometer (XGRS)                                           
                                                                              
Cruise and approach phases:                                                   
          Verification of detector operation.                                 
          Calibrations of the XGRS detectors.                                 
          Identification of natural and induced activities.                   
          Cross-calibration of solar monitors.                                
                                                                              
Eros orbital phase:                                                           
          Near-real-time X-ray maps:                                          
                    Relative abundances of Mg, Al, and Si for quiescent sun.  
                    Relative abundances of Mg, Al, Si, S, Ca, and Fe for      
active sun conditions.                                                        
          Near-real-time gamma-ray maps:                                      
                    Natural radioactivity (most likely K) distribution.       
                    Global composition for selected elements.                 
          Longer-term data products:                                          
Elemental composition maps derived from X-ray data with spatial resolution    
from 5 to 100 km.                                                             
                                                                              
Elemental composition maps derived from gamma-ray data over quadrants of      
Eros.  X-ray solar spectral variation as a function of solar activity.        
                                                                              
Computer models used for identifications available both before and after      
encounter.  (software)                                                        
                                                                              
Fundamental (level 0/1) data also to be archived:                             
          Detector Count Rates                                                
          Natural Radioactivity Rates                                         
          EDR's from Solar Monitors                                           
                                                                              
Radio Science and Navigation (RS)                                             
                                                                              
Mass of Mathilde and uncertainty.                                             
Mass of Eros and uncertainty.                                                 
Harmonic coefficients and associated uncertainties from gravity model.        
Harmonic coefficients and associated uncertainties from shape model.          
Gravity maps.                                                                 
          Accelerations (mgal) and uncertainties at reference surface.        
          Geoid potential and associated uncertainties.                       
          Vertical Bouguer (difference) map at reference surface.             
Line-of-sight acceleration residuals remaining after gravity model.           
Spin state of Eros.                                                           
Principal axes directions and moments of inertia.                             
Orbit determinations and ephemerides for satellites of Eros.                  
Limit upon outgassing acceleration acting upon Eros.                          
Fundamental (level 0) data also to be archived:                               
          Frequencies vs. time                                                
          Doppler shifts relative to ephemeris model vs. time                 
          Ephemeris Model                                                     
                                                                              
NEAR Laser Rangefinder (NLR)                                                  
                                                                              
Raw type target data (level 1).                                               
                                                                              
Altimetry data products:                                                      
                                                                              
Profiles:                                                                     
          EDRs with approximate horizontal resolution 10m.                    
CDRs with 10m horizontal resolution.  (Precision orbits, higher vertical and  
horizontal integrity than EDRs.)                                              
                                                                              
Grids:                                                                        
          One month in 50km orbit will provide a 3 km grid.                   
          Six months in 35km orbit will provide a 300 m grid.                 
                                                                              
Spherical harmonic topographic model and error model:                         
A 120th degree and order model (300m resolution) with variance-covariance     
matrix.                                                                       
                                                                              
Reference surface:                                                            
          Global surface from the altimetry referenced to center of mass.     
                                                                              
Gravity and dynamics data products:                                           
                                                                              
Spherical harmonic gravity model:                                             
          An approximately 15th degree and order gravitational field model.   
Grids:                                                                        
Geoid and gravity anomaly maps of Eros for use in geophysical and geologic    
investigations.                                                               
                                                                              
                                                                              
Error model:                                                                  
The variance-covariance matrix of the gravity model, an error map and error   
spectrum for the gravity field.                                               
                                                                              
Tracking data and precision orbits:                                           
Archive the validated Doppler tracking data in a PDS-compatible format and    
the precision orbits with a radial accuracy of 5-10 m.                        
                                                                              
Spin axis and rotation period:                                                
          The rotation period and spin axis direction at regular intervals.   
Simple descriptive model developed for comparison with imaging results.       
                                                                              
Magnetometer (MAG)                                                            
                                                                              
Raw B field components (field 1).                                             
Time series (B(t)) in spacecraft coordinates.                                 
Time series in celestial coordinates (J2000 inertial).                        
Time series in Eros-centered (non-inertial) spherical polar coordinate        
system.                                                                       
Spherical harmonic models of Eros "global" field - wire models/graphics       
("hairy asteroid").                                                           
Spherical harmonics descriptions of magnetic "anomalies".                     
Special data products (time series, spectra, etc.) for solar wind interaction 
characterization and boundary detection, i.e., BP filter data, FFT's, etc.    
Special data products to support joint investigations (GRS, gravity, etc.)    
Fundamental (level 0) data also to be archived:                               
          Raw magnetic field strengths                                        
          Corrections applied for spacecraft interaction with B-field         
                                                                              
Auxiliary Data Products                                                       
                                                                              
Instrument and dataset descriptions to be incorporated into templates         
according to PDS guidelines.                                                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Appendix B.  Glossary of Terms and Acronyms                                   
                                                                              
Acronyms:                                                                     
                                                                              
APL                              -                    The Johns Hopkins       
University Applied Physics Laboratory.                                        
C&DH                              -                    Command and Data       
Handling.                                                                     
DPW                              -                    The PDS Data            
Preparation Workbook.                                                         
EDR                              -                    Experimental Data       
Record.                                                                       
GSE                              -                    Ground Support          
Equipment.                                                                    
JPL                              -                    Jet Propulsion          
Laboratory.                                                                   
MAG                              -                    Magnetometer, a NEAR    
instrument.                                                                   
MOC                              -                    Mission Operations      
Center                                                                        
MSI                              -                    Multi-Spectral Imager,  
a NEAR instrument.                                                            
NAIF                              -                              Navigation   
and Ancillary Information Facility, a discipline node of PDS.                 
NASCOM                    -                    NASA Communications.           
NEAR                              -                    Near Earth Asteroid    
Rendezvous mission.                                                           
NIS                              -                    Near-Infrared           
Spectrometer, a NEAR instrument.                                              
NLR                              -                    NEAR Laser Rangefinder, 
a NEAR instrument.                                                            
NSSDC                    -                    National Space Science Data     
Center.                                                                       
PDS                              -                    The Planetary Data      
System.                                                                       
PPI                              -                    Planetary Plasma        
Interactions, a discipline node of the PDS.                                   
RS                              -                    Radio Science, a NEAR    
experiment package.                                                           
SBN                              -                    Small Bodies Node, a    
discipline node of the PDS.                                                   
SDC                              -                    NEAR Science Data       
Center, based at JHU/APL.                                                     
SIS                              -                    Software Interface      
Specification.                                                                
SPICE                              -                    A system of providing 
navigation and geometry data.                                                 
                                                  S = Spacecraft, P = Planet, 
I = Instrument, C = C-matrix, and E = Events.                                 
SR                              -                    The PDS Standards        
Reference.                                                                    
XGRS                              -                    X-ray Gamma-ray        
Spectrometer, a NEAR instrument.                                              
                                                                              
Terms:                                                                        
                                                                              
Catalog object                    -                    A PDS-required file    
formally documenting the details of a mission, spacecraft, instrument, or     
data set.                                                                     
Label                              -                    An attached or        
detached header which formally describes the structure and content of a data  
file.                                                                         
Lien                              -                    An action recommended  
by reviewers or PDS personnel to correct the  archive.                        
Template                    -                    Same as a catalog object     
Volume                    -                    A single CD-ROM or other       
volume of a storage medium.                                                   
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Appendix C.          Data Level Definitions                                   
                                                                              
Level:                    Description:                                        
                                                                              
0                    The raw telemetry data as received at the ground         
receiving station or ground test GSE, organized by contacts or ground test.   
                                                                              
0a                    The telemetry data as produced by the C&DH system on    
the spacecraft and passed to the telemetry subsystem.  NASCOM headers and     
trailers have been separated.  Level 0a contains transfer frame packets       
organized by contacts or ground tests.                                        
                                                                              
0b                    The transfer frame packets for virtual channel 2 and    
sub-packets for virtual channels 0 and 3, plus radiometric tracking data, all 
organized by contacts or ground test.                                         
                                                                              
1                    Level 0b data that have been cleaned and merged, time    
ordered, and in packet format.  Cleaned and merged means that duplicate data  
have been deleted, missing packets are padded out, and the data are organized 
by days.  The actual format of these data is the same as level 0b.  This is   
the level that should be passed to the instrument GSE's for their processing. 
                                                                              
1a                    The level 1 data that have been separated by            
instrument.                                                                   
                                                                              
1b                    The level 1a data that have been sorted by instrument   
data types and instrument modes.  Data are in scientifically useful form,     
e.g. as images or individual spectra.  These data are still uncalibrated,     
                                                                              
2                    Level 1b with calibration and corrections applied to     
yield data in scientific units.                                               
                                                                              
3                    Higher level data products developed for specific        
scientific investigations.                                                    
                                                                              
                                                                              
Appendix D.          NEAR Project Data Policy                                 
                                                                              
S1P 94-151                                                                    
November 28, 1994                                                             
                                                                              
To:                    Thomas B. Coughlin                                     
                                                                              
From:                    Andrew F. Cheng                                      
                                                                              
Re:                    NEAR Project Data Policy                               
                                                                              
                                                                              
This is a summary of the data analysis and release policies for the Near      
Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) Project.  It is meant to cover the pre-      
flight, post-launch, and data analysis activities of the NEAR Science Team    
and Instrument Scientists.  A list of these individuals is attached.  Data    
policies were reviewed and discussed at a full meeting of the NEAR Science    
Team held at APL on November 10-11, 1994.  Subsequently, a draft Data Policy  
was circulated for comment among all Team members.  Based upon the reviews    
and comments from Science Team members and Instrument Scientists, I am        
issuing the following Data Policy for the NEAR Project.                       
                                                                              
Ground Rules                                                                  
                                                                              
o          Selected uncalibrated data, including imaging, will be publicly    
released over the INTERNET in close to real time.                             
                                                                              
o          Fully reduced, calibrated and corrected data products will be      
published and forwarded to the Planetary Data System as soon as they have     
been generated and validated.                                                 
                                                                              
o          The Project strongly encourages shared data analyses, under the    
direction of the teams whose data are being used, among members of different  
instrument teams.                                                             
                                                                              
o          The Team Leaders are responsible for coordinating all scientific   
investigations involving the use of data from their respective instruments.   
                                                                              
Guidelines                                                                    
                                                                              
o          In the interest of a systematic and orderly data analysis, the     
Team Leaders must approve of all scientific investigations involving the use  
of data from their respective instruments.                                    
                                                                              
o          Likewise, the Team Leaders must approve of all plans to release or 
to publish calibrated data from their respective instruments.  In this        
context, 'to publish' includes not only journal articles but also abstracts   
and presentations.                                                            
                                                                              
o          In case of differences of opinion, the issues will be brought      
before the Project Scientist for resolution.                                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
Distribution                                                                  
                                                                              
T. Coughlin                              NEAR Science Team members            
R. E. Gold                              NEAR Instrument Scientists            
K. Heeres                              Elizabeth Beyer (NASA HQ)              
J. Landshof                              Jurgen Rahe (NASA HQ)                
R. Farquhar                                                                   
L. Young                                                                      
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
NEAR     Archive     Volume                                                   
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Documents                                                                     
                                                                              
Catalog Objects                                                               
                                                                              
Software                                                                      
                                                                              
Index                                                                         
                                                                              
Calibration Files                                                             
                                                                              
Navigation & Geometry                                                         
                                                                              
Data SetCollections                                                           
                                                                              
MERGE: shape models                                                           
                                                                              
MSI; raw images                                                               
calibrations                                                                  
mosaicked images                                                              
shape data                                                                    
support data                                                                  
                                                                              
NIS                                                                           
raw spectra                                                                   
calibrations                                                                  
calibrated spectra                                                            
image cubes                                                                   
support data                                                                  
                                                                              
XGRS                                                                          
X-ray maps                                                                    
Gamma-ray maps                                                                
composition maps                                                              
solar spectral variations                                                     
                                                                              
MAG                                                                           
B(t) time series                                                              
spherical harmonic models                                                     
special data products                                                         
                                                                              
NLR                                                                           
profiles                                                                      
grids                                                                         
error models                                                                  
gravity model                                                                 
                                                                              
RS                                                                            
masses                                                                        
harmonic coefficient                                                          
gravity maps                                                                  
acceleration residuals                                                        
spin state                                                                    
                                                                              
                                                                              
